Previously on
Sanctuary...
All right.
Adam, what are
you doing here?
Helen, I'm sorry
to intrude.
James.
Burnt down any more
laboratories recently?
That was 10 years ago,
and it was an accident.
Really?
What do you want, Adam?
It's me daughter, imogene.
She's gravely ill,
a rare blood disease.
I beg of you, help her.
We battled
until the very end.
We tried everything.
Loss of a daughter,
it's a wound that never heals.
He told me
he intended to use the device
to save his daughter.
Time travel?
It's impossible.
But he said he'd found a way.
You would have been
altering the course of history.
That was the point.
If Adam succeeds in
altering the timeline,
then everything
about our world,
the refugees,
the Sanctuary,
our very lives will be
irreparably damaged.
We may even
cease to exist.
Praxis...
It's gone.
What happened here?
Worth.
He must have made
another attempt
to power up the machine.
Adam,
what are you doing?
This is madness.
I have a chance
to get my daughter back.
Are you telling me
you wouldn't do the same thing?
Not at the expense
of everyone on the planet.
You're too late.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Stay back!
Adam!
What was that?!
Hoping for
a quick finish, Helen?
Me too.
Don't make things worse, Adam.
Neither of us
can be here.
We both know it.
It's only
time travel, Helen.
What's the worst
that could happen?
Aside from destroying
the natural order of history?
What, by creating
a utopia?
By taking over the world.
Over here!
By the rubble.
She's down
the alley, that way!
Call the Bobby!
♪ Sanctuary 4x01 ♪
Tempus
Original Air Date on October 7, 2011
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Hasn't said a word.
Wouldn't let the Doctor
near her, neither.
Has she put up
any kind of resistance?
Been as gentle
as a debutante,
despite all the weapons
we found on her.
Never seen
anything like 'em.
I would say Miss Magnus'
reputation as odd
remains intact.
It's  Dr. Magnus,
and I will need everything
you took from her.
Look, there are no charges,
no evidence to suppress.
I'm just making your life
easier, Lestrade,
as usual.
Fine,
but you owe me
for this, Watson.
Are you ready
to come home, Helen?
I received a message
that you'd been found
injured,
half dressed,
and discharging
a weapon in public.
If you had a lead
in the case,
you could at least
have informed me.
I should have,
I realize that.
Th-things just got away
from me, I'm afraid.
It was him, wasn't it?
I was right.
Helen, how could you
face him on your own?
I didn't get a good look
at who it was.
I just...
I got overexcited,
and I fell, and I--
I should've called you--
c-contacted you.
Thank you, James.
"Overexcited"?
That's your explanation
for your incredibly
strange attire,
weapons that I have
never seen--
and your hair,
for God's sake.
When did you do that?
It's late,
and it's been a hell of a night.
Helen, at least let me
take a look at your head.
You--
you've taken a terrible tumble.
I'm fine. Really.
I can see myself home.
Good night, James.
Helen...
What on earth's
come over you?
Dear God, I still have this
in my study.
It arrived yesterday
from Mozambique.
I would say your father
was having a wonderful time
on the dark continent.
I believe he's sent
a new form of iodine.
Let me, James.
Medicine was always
your weak spot.
"Was"?
It's a scalp wound
and a mild concussion.
I hardly need a nursemaid.
Will you stop
looking at me like that?
How should I
be looking at you?
Just...
Leave me alone.
No, no. Don't do that.
What the devil
is that made of?
These numbers,
are they
significant?
This?
What's the...
The design...
The purpose...
How...
How is that powered?
James,
ignore all of this.
Ignore me.
"Browning automatic"?
I've never heard of that,
and yet, I know
every weapons
manufacturer
in the world.
Amazing!
The release time--
Leave.
Right now.
Not a chance.
It's my Sanctuary.
Is it?
From the moment
you walked in here,
you've been behaving
as if you were visiting
someone's grave.
It may have been your Sanctuary
a long time ago,
but not anymore.
Business cards
made from a substance
I can't identify,
issued 2010,
expires 2015?
Weapons that I have never seen
or heard of.
Clothes designed
for maximum movement
and protection.
I am Helen--
Oh, you definitely  are
Helen Magnus,
just not of this era.
I'm a...
Detective.
Well, then.
Now you understand
why you have to leave.
Because
by being here,
you may disrupt
the timeline,
change the future
as you know it.
But how is this
possible?
I came here on a mission.
If I fail,
everything that is meant to be,
everything that I build
from now until my present
could be destroyed.
Who were you chasing?
Honestly,
Helen.
Whatever your mission is,
it's got off
to a very bad start.
You need help,
and seeing as I know the truth,
what choice do you have
but to let me in?
No questions
about the future,
near or distant?
Adam Worth,
that's who
I was chasing.
From Oxford?
What on earth--
He's come
from the future as well.
I followed him here
after John and I were--
John  Druitt ?
Dear God, does
everyone from our era
live on to
the 21st century?
Not everyone.
Oh.
I'll tell you
only what you need to know
to prevent Adam from
irrevocably damaging the future,
nothing more.
Time travel
is actually possible.
H.G. would be ecstatic.
But by simply being here,
haven't you already
changed things?
I'll not give you a lesson
in temporal theory, nice try,
but had I arrived
a century,
or even millennia ago,
the effect on my future
would likely be more severe.
So the shorter the time scale,
the less the effect
on the future.
Unless, of course,
Adam does something
to dramatically alter
the course of events.
Or you do.
Do we have a deal?
Everything
you brought with you
must be destroyed.
And you need to change.
Don't even
think about it.
It's a communication
device, isn't it?
Better?
Much.
Good.
No questions.
Imogene?
Imogene...
I need to make another trip
to the apothecary,
I'm afraid, love.
I won't be long.
Oh, it was all worth it.
Papa?
Imogene.
How are you feeling, darling?
Fine.
Just a bit tired.
What did you do
to your hair?
No, no... just a little cut.
I've done the most
wonderful thing.
I've found a cure
for your condition.
But you said there was no--
No, no, no, that's all changed.
For the better, I promise.
Oh no.
What's happened?
No...
Nothing, just...
A little hole.
I can fix that, though.
It's not a problem.
You look good.
Give us a smile.
All right,
let's get a move on.
He should still be
in the city,
but maybe not for long.
The Adam Worth
from your time.
Now, he's come here
for what reason?
Open the door.
Open it now.
I'll throttle ya.
- Sir--
- Look, I'm not joking.
You'll end up
in the garden.
- Open the door--
- I can't.
Thank you.
Adam?
Helen, James.
Sorry to intrude.
Burned any
laboratories recently?
That was 10 years ago,
and it was an accident.
10 years...
Listen, it's
me daughter, Imogene.
She's gravely ill.
It's a rare blood disease.
Now, I've tried
every treatment possible,
every method
and you want my help.
Thank you, Helen,
but actually, I-
I've come for his help.
You see,
she's missing.
Someone's taken her.
I just don't understand
who would do this.
I haven't much money.
She's just a child.
Worth, be a good chap
and ask the night ward for
the visitor manifest, will you?
There's no sign of a struggle.
She went without resistance.
Of course she did.
She thought
he was her father.
In the past I remember,
Adam came to us for help
finding a cure
for Imogene
two months from now.
This moment never happened.
And now this future Adam
has his daughter.
And a cure?
Which means he's already
altered the future, forever.
Please, are there
any clues?
Suspects?
We'd know more
if you told us what
you were working on, Adam.
Well, I told you,
I'm trying to find
a cure for her disease.
Which is an expensive
proposition.
You'd need money,
resources,
which means some sort of
extortion plot
or larcenous act.
What?
No,
I'd never resort
to that--
Those lab fires
were hardly an accident,
and the toxins you were
formulating at Oxford,
I know you've created
prototypes--
My daughter is missing!
And if you want to find her,
you will give us
names, places,
safehouses,
everything
you are secretly planning
to unleash on this city.
You're mad.
Helen,
that's enough.
I thought you
understood my situation.
I guess I know better now.
I'll find her myself.
Has society gone
back to the Dark Ages?
He's done
nothing wrong.
Not yet,
but he will, believe me.
And if you interrogate
him in this manner,
it will be you
who has altered
the natural order
of things.
Helen, you have
far too much knowledge
about this time and place.
Use that carefully.
We need to find Adam,
future-Adam,
before too much damage is done.
Finding people is what I do,
if you recall...
But I will ask you
to curb your temper
as we go forward.
Of course.
James, I'm-I'm sorry.
You can see yourself home.
Don't lie to me!
Five murders,
their throats cut,
their bodies desecrated
in a manner that
few beings can achieve.
Instant escape
from the crime scene?
And so it must be me?
You seem flattered.
Oh, I am.
Deft manner of
proving your innocence,
threatening my life.
Call it
self-preservation.
Why on earth
should I
let you frame me
for crimes I  haven't
committed?
Well, if you're innocent,
then you have
nothing to fear
You sound just like James.
How much time have you
been spending together?
And now jealousy.
For whom?
How dare you
question my motives?
My...
Feelings?
You...
You hunt me like an animal.
After all
we've been through.
My heart...
is yours.
Look...
In my face.
Look at my face.
Damn!
Helen?
Over here.
Any word on Adam's
whereabouts?
What's wrong?
Druitt was here.
John?
Are you--
is she--
We're both fine, thank you.
He's not happy
that you like him
for the latest Ripper killings,
made sure I knew it.
Not happy because I'm right?
Oh, all right,
no questions,
I understand.
But you did make a point
of letting me know
that he paid you
a visit,
which I will take to mean
that I must keep focused
on the case.
Adam Worth?
He is expected
at the Reformer Club
in Pall Mall this evening.
Whether it's the future
or the present Adam,
I-I don't know.
Good.
If we hurry,
we'll beat him there.
James,
is that you?
Darling! Hello.
There you are.
Are you ready to work?
Yes, if you are.
Absolutely.
Now, I've been re-thinking
your last theory,
and I found
a few holes, I'm afraid.
Ah.
You can't come in here.
A woman?
Inconceivable.
Simon, come quick.
May I assist you?
I'm here to see
Adam Worth.
I have no record of any guests
for Mr. Worth.
I will gladly leave him
a message, miss...
Dr. Helen Magnus.
Consider it done.
I'll hail you a cab.
I'll only be a minute.
The club is
for members only.
Remove your hand.
Right now--
how dare you?
She's with me.
Whatever took you so long, love?
Shame on you.
She's a lady.
Is that a revolver
under your bustle,
or are you just
happy to see me?
Oh, it's a gun.
Any last words?
Well, "don't shoot!"
Never seems to work with you.
How about,
"kill me here,
and alter the future
in a most dr
the infamous
Helen Magnus,
murderer of a patron
of a gentleman's club.
Quite the departure
from your destiny, I'd say.
Cheers.
I do miss this era.
A simpler, more elegant time.
I will kill you, Adam.
What for?
To save the future?
What makes what we left behind
so precious?
With Praxis destroyed,
God knows what threat
my people are facing
in the present.
Most likely you've created
chaos for Hollow Earth
and the surface
that will take years
to clean up.
None of that has happened yet,
and guess what?
Maybe it never does.
Move on, I say.
Change the future.
Make it
whatever you want it to be.
You know what I find
interesting
is that
you're sitting here,
sipping Brandy with these stiffs
instead of skipping off
into the sunset with Imogene.
I like it here.
There's been a complication.
You haven't
cured her yet.
That's why you're here,
to borrow money
to fund your plan,
which I am certain has gone
entirely pear-shaped.
It's a matter of time, love,
and only that.
Bustle or no,
I'll be out that door
before your head
hits this table.
Doubtful. Simon!
The lady is ready
to leave now.
Thanks for the offer, ma'am,
but I'm a family man,
and a gentleman.
Women.
Dr. Magnus?
Message for you.
James, please.
But you have been through
all this before.
For God's sake,
you could save lives!
We both know I can't interfere.
Then there will be
blood on your hands.
Not if you do your job
and stop looking
for a short cut.
And if your very presence here
has changed
the course of events,
interfered with
the investigation,
what then?
Can you live with that?
No, please, spare me.
I don't want to know the answer.
Because in the future,
emotions,
empathy,
humanity, ceases to exist--
you should have
caught him by now.
Yes, my presence here
may have altered things,
possibly for the worst.
That woman who died tonight
should be the last victim.
But she won't be.
Remember the purpose
of the Sanctuary.
To find and help
unfortunate creatures,
to protect them.
To keep the public safe.
Do that,
and this case will be solved
without any further bloodshed.
And if I can't?
That's an expression
I've rarely heard you use.
What are you making?
Arsenic.
Strychnine..?
A toxin.
A last resort.
To mimic the blood disease
that kills Imogene.
A fail-safe
in case Adam cures her.
Dear God...
I'm not even sure
I can finish making it,
let alone give it to her.
If there was any other way
to stop Adam Worth
from completely
disrupting the timeline...
Humanity isn't completely
dead in the future,
just so you know.
You're going out?
Where?
Hunting.
Your hair.
I like it.
I don't have time
for this, John.
Perhaps I didn't make myself
clear earlier.
Hunting me
will only make things
more difficult for you.
Let me pass.
There's only one way
to make you pay attention.
You're insane.
Oh, very much so.
Fancy some more?
How on earth did you-- ?
How does it feel?
Cold steel
against your jugular?
In the hands of someone
who knows how to
kill you slowly
and has the will
to do it?
H-Helen?
Are you paying
attention?
Stay away from me.
Hello, Jack.
Know my name, do you?
Yes, I know who you are.
Jack knows you.
You're Gregory's
little girl.
My father helped you,
years ago.
Saved your life.
You're not
a little girl anymore.
Older now.
Much, much older.
Smell like
nothing I know.
You promised my father
you wouldn't kill again.
That you'd leave London--
Jack did leave!
People hunted me down,
like a dog!
This is  my hunting ground.
If humans hunt Jack,
then Jack hunts humans.
Here! My ground!
The city's bigger.
You'll be found
and killed.
Ah, I'm strong.
I'm too fast for them.
They'll never find me.
I can,
and I will.
You can die
like an animal
or live
with my protection.
Be safe from humans.
Humans can go to hell!
With my help.
If you kill again,
I can't guarantee your safety.
Stop now,
and I'll give you Sanctuary.
You have my word,
and my father's.
I'm your friend.
Spring-heeled Jack.
Thanks, love.
So different.
Such odd looking pieces.
You actually
designed these?
Ah...
Some of them, yes.
To help me?
You are all
I've been thinking about
for a very long time.
Good.
You look tired.
I wish you'd take a rest.
I'm too close here, Imogene.
But once this is done,
we'll be able to get
all the rest we want.
Go places together,
see things you've never seen
that'll amaze you.
Soon, not only
will we be able to
see the world together,
it will be ours for the taking.
Anything you want,
anything at all,
we take it,
control it,
use it to create
whatever future we want.
I've never heard you
talk this way before.
You're different.
So confident.
Chance of getting
a biscuit with me tea?
As his lordship pleases.
This better be good.
I just climbed up
six flights of stairs
in new boots.
I was thinking
about what you said,
and I think you're right.
It isn't John
doing these murders.
I'm listening.
Another creature,
as violent
and dangerous as him,
with its own unique method
of near-instant escape.
As I've been saying,
but as you keep pointing out,
none of the other possibilities
make any sense.
No one can teleport like John.
What about
incredible super strength?
The ability to leap quickly
to high ground.
Rooftops.
Exactly.
You're certain.
Yes, ma'am.
Up those stairs
with a dark wood door.
Thank you.
Dear God, Adam.
Before you start
threatening me,
or shooting me, for that matter,
we still have
that nagging problem
of the witnesses.
Hello.
Imogene.
Dr. Helen Magnus,
this is my
daughter, Imogene.
You must be one of
my dad's colleagues.
He said some friends
might drop by.
How lovely
to meet you, Doctor.
Dr. Helen here
is a ground-breaker,
just like you.
What have you done, Adam?
How are you feeling,
Imogene?
Better than
I have in years.
Thanks to papa here.
No...
Oh yes.
Healthy as a horse,
I'm afraid.
Welcome to
the future, Helen.
So, now that
the game is over,
what say we put away
our guns, yes?
Starting with yours.
Unlikely.
Papa?
Are you going to shoot me
in front of
my own flesh and blood?
That's cold, Helen,
even for you.
What's the meaning
of this?
I'm sorry, Imogene,
but this man
is not your father.
Please,
leave him alone.
I know
it looks like him,
but this man has ended
millions
of innocent lives,
caused unimaginable
destruction.
Don't listen
to her, darling.
All of it lies.
Destroying Praxis?
Altering the timeline?
You have to be stopped, Adam.
Please,
leave him alone!
Papa?
What is that?
Just some insurance.
Stay here.
I won't be long.
Shaming me in front of
my daughter, Helen?
Very impolite!
Oh, bloody hell...
Drop the gun!
I said,
drop the gun!
You just had to get
all high and mighty
with your amazing
future, didn't you?
Couldn't get
with the program. No.
You stupid, small-minded--
Papa?
Adam, no!
Imogene!
No!
Stay back.
Do it, Adam.
We both go.
Neither of us belongs here.
Everything I've worked for,
everything I care about
destroyed!
By you.
I'll kill you for this,
I swear!
Please.
Please, make room.
Dear God.
It's Adam's
daughter.
The eaves must have
collapsed on her.
Imogene?
Get away from her.
I'm so sorry.
Imogene? Imogene?
Imogene?
Imogene...
No...
What have you done?
Both of you!
Adam--
if you'd have helped,
she'd still be alive right now.
Her blood is on your hands.
And your hands!
We'd better be
on our way, Helen.
Oh, that poor man.
Spring-heeled Jack,
the Sanctuary's
newest resident.
I wish I could've
told you earlier.
All that matters is that
the streets of London
are safe again.
As they should be.
I never meant
to burden you, James.
All this knowledge
you have to keep secret.
Oh, I love it,
you know that.
What, all the deductive
reasoning I'll be able to do
with the little tidbits
you've left me?
It's going to keep me occupied
for decades,
if I have that long.
In my future you do,
many of them.
No, I don't want to know.
Far too much information.
Now that we've cleaned up
all evidence of Adam,
and the technology
he brought with him,
I suppose there's only
one thing left undone.
What to do about you.
I can't be here, James.
We both know it.
Everything I touch,
everyone I meet...
Could ruin my future.
You'd best kill yourself.
I'm glad we both agree.
Helen, suicide?
You're so melodramatic.
Do you have a better idea?
I'm trapped here,
and I have no way home.
You can always go home.
It just might take
a little while.
It's one of the benefits
of your incredibly
slow aging.
Disappear.
Go somewhere... remote,
with limited contact
with the rest of world.
Spend the time thinking about...
All the things
you've lived through.
113 years of seclusion?
Then you re-join your timeline
just after you've left it.
Unless, of course,
you're determined
to do yourself in.
A vacation?
From what I gather, you've...
rather earned one.
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org